---
layout: post
title:  "Recorder"
date:   2016-02-05 15:08:10 -0500
img: img/portfolio/cake.png
icon: "&#xf03d;"
modalID: modalRecorder
category: Tools
---
Record your explorations of code

**Recorder** is the idea that you should record your interactions with the code you're trying to understand so that you can replay it later for recall or to share with others.


# Why Recorder
As found by [Maalej et al](https://mobis.informatik.uni-hamburg.de/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/TOSEM-Maalej-Comprehension-PrePrint2.pdf) (page 12):
> 3 Developers interact with the application user interface to test whether the application behaves as expected and to find starting points for further inspection..

The idea, therefore, is to make it easy to record and replay developer interactions with the system under study to make comprehension easier.

# The dream record/replay tool
Ideally, there would be a single tool that would allow you to record and replay. One can imagine a tool that works like so:

    ./record --context="Booking ticket" --all-input -o booking_ticket.log

...which could be played back like so:

    ./replay booking_ticket.log

However, things are not that easy in the real world:
* **Privacy/Security concerns**:Features such as Keyboard and mouse logging are typically fraught with privacy and security concerns. OSs therefore lock these down, rightfully.
* **OS constraints**: Since these are typically low level features, each OS implements access to them differently, making integration and abstraction difficult.
* **Brittle Solution**: Assuming we get past these hurdles, we're still left with a very brittle solution: recorded data are vey specific to the conditions at the time recording and perfect replay requires a perfect recreation of those conditions.
* **Aide comprehension**: Assuming we're able to make a flexible solution, it must still enable comprehension for it to be of use to the developer.

Check out the github repo for more information.

Github: [https://github.com/groktools/git-authors](https://github.com/groktools/recorder)
